---
layout: post
title:  "MTU -- an important but easily missed point in bluetooth LE development"
date:   2017-05-02 13:38:01
comments: true  
categories: Bluetooth
---

You're learning Bluetooth LE programming. You've already known what is GAP, GATT. You've known the role of your smart phone and embedded device. You've setup your services and characteristics. Now it's time to communicate with two sides! After all, this is the thing you really want to do.

## Something is missing from the sample code coming from Google.com
Recently in the job, I need to do on two side bluetooth LE programming, an ARM based chipset board and Android phone. I've gone through how to setup GATT server on the board using Bluetopia. But when I want to transfer some data about 130 bytes from board to Android phone, sometimes I can get the whole data, but sometimes I can only get 22 bytes. This the point I started to get confused.

## MTU exchange, the timing issue
After some research on Google and the book "Getting Started With Bluetooth with Bluetooth Low Energy", I finally figured out the inconsistency of the data size.
Apparently Android by default support the MTU as 23 bytes, but during the connection process, the MTU exchange is issued by GATT server from embedded device. The flow looks like this 

```sequence

Client->Server: 1: Connect Request
Server-->Client: 2: Connection Accepted
Server-->Client:3: Exchange MTU, request maximum MTU
Client->Server: 4: Discover Service, characteristic and read data 

```

If the flow happens as the above, everything would be perfect. After the MTU exchanged, both device will communicate at same rate. But in my case, or in real world, the step 4 sometimes happens before steps 3 finished, when this happens, the one chunk of data reduced to 22 bytes only.

## Solution
To get a consistence MTU, my solution is after the connection happens, on Android side, instead discover services, I do a request MTU exchange to fix this timing issue 

```java

@Override
public void onConnectionStateChange(BluetoothGatt gatt, int status, int newState) {
   if(newState == BluetoothProfile.STATE_CONNECTED) {
       Log.d(TAG,"Connected To Ble ");
             mGatt.requestMtu(MTU_INT); // MTU_INT is the max supported number for your device
       } else if (newState == BluetoothProfile.STATE_DISCONNECTED){
             Log.d(TAG,"Disconnected To Ble ");
       }
}
@Override
public void onMtuChanged(BluetoothGatt gatt, int mtu, int status) {
    mGatt.discoverServices();
}

```  




 


